Ten years have passed since the National Food Security Act gave all pregnant women a right to maternity benefits. This was the most radical provision of the Act, even if the initial benefits were small—just Rs 6,000 per child. It affirms the fact that any pregnant woman may require some social support to face the contingencies of pregnancy and child birth. Very few developing countries have adopted this progressive approach to maternity entitlements.Had the Act been implemented, and the benefits raised in tandem with (say) nominal GDP, Indian women today would be receiving cash benefits of about Rs 20,000 in the event of pregnancy, as they do in Tamil Nadu. This would help to ensure that they are not deprived of adequate nutrition, rest and healthcare at this difficult time.Instead, the central government has used every possible means to evade its obligations under the Act. For a full four years (2013 to 2017), there was no action at all. In 2017, a national scheme of maternity benefits was finally launched—the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY). This scheme, however, restricts maternity benefits to the “first living child”, at a measly rate of Rs 5,000 in three instalments. By the time Covid-19 hit the country in early 2020, even this restricted coverage was still a distant goal.Meanwhile, pregnancy and childbirth remained a harrowing experience for millions of women. In 2019, the Jaccha-Baccha Survey (JABS) found horrendous levels of deprivation and insecurity during pregnancy in a sample of 700 rural women spread over six north Indian states. Among 364 women who had delivered a child in the preceding six months, less than a quarter had eaten nutritious food more often than usual during pregnancy, and nearly 40% complained of a lack of rest at that time. Weight gain during pregnancy was way below the recommended norms—just 7 kg on average. This is all the more worrying as so many women are severely undernourished to start with. (See “Maternity Entitlements: Women’s Rights Derailed”, by Jean Drèze, Reetika Khera and Anmol Somanchi, Economic and Political Weekly, 20 November 2021.)How is PMMVY faring today? This is not easy to tell because PMMVY has no public data portal worth the name.